README.md, before:



![alt text](http://gf--img.s3-website-us-east-1.amazonaws.com/gf_logo_0.3.png "GloFlow logo")

Media publishing/management/manipulation system.

screenshots:
<img align="left" width="500" height="300" src="https://gloflow.com/images/d/thumbnails/34235e14afaa6baaff802c659ff5cd06_thumb_medium.png">
<img align="left" width="500" height="300" src="https://gloflow.com/images/d/thumbnails/4ae445a94deea001d04d2b4068391c1f_thumb_medium.png">


(note: this is alpha software, not feature complete)

GloFlow is a set of tools meant for media **discovery**/**curation**.
Its purpose is to help manage media (for now mainly images) collections, to **edit** media, **publish** it, **share** it with other people, **analyse** it. 
Its goal is to provide free and private exchange of media between people and groups of people. It currently runs as a centralized service, but the aim is for it to also be fully decentralized and run in a P2P network. 

Images/videos are at the core of our social **culture**, at the core of how we perceive the world and how we **remember ideas** and **moments**. **We communicate most effectivelly when we exchange visual information**. There should be a technology that is focused on that, that is modern, accessible to technical people for modification/integration and automation, and most importantly **free** and **independent** of any single individuals or groups (and their possible control).

This project is still very much work in progress. It has been worked on over the years in an largely unplanned manner, adding parts that were of interest at the time. 
It has been rewritten 3 times since I wrote the first official code in **2012** (when it went online). 

Originally it was in Python on the backend, and JS on the frontend. Later the entire thing was rewritten in Dart on both the frontend and backend. Finally the backend was rewritten in **Go**, and frontend in TypeScript. 

**Rust** is used for the gf_images_jobs module at the moment. It includes basic image operations that are coded in Rust without dependencies, for image saturation, contrast, brightness, noise. More operations need to be added:
    - Blur
    - Various shifting in color-space towards a particular color.
    - Image Entropy measurements and croping basic on the highest-entropy region.

**TensorFlow** - at the moment GF can pack images into .tfrecords files, for loading into Tensorflow for model training. The goal is have Tensorflow integrated into GF fully, and allow for image flows to be packaged as .tfrecords and piped into various models for training. Model inferencing is to be integrated as well, for classification of images in flows, for training of models from tags added to images by users. Reinforcment-learning is also to be used in gf_crawl so that the crawler can learn to crawl sites/domains that have high-quality images (and to depth-search those url tree's first).



**Core Applications**

- gf_solo
monolith that compils all the sub-apps into a single package - (gf_images/gf_publisher/gf_analytics/etc.).
it is built into a single Docker container, and meant to be used by power-users on their personal machines or servers.  

- gf_images
main application, responsible for working with images. this application contains its own HTTP handlers for REST API endpoints for adding images to the system. it also contains functions for working with Image Flows (which are collections of images). this application has several sub-packages:
    - **gf_gif_lib** - this is responsible for working with GIF files.
    - **gf_image_editor** - collection of functions for saving versions of images (versions that were edited). Image filters are for now appliced on the front-end in JS code, in the browser, but in the future we need to move to applying filters on the backend as well since we can scale and be much more performant there for really large images (or for less powerful .
    - **gf_images_jobs** - this is the main image operations image manager, parallel process that applies various image transformation to potentially large collections of images. This is purely Go for now, but Rust will be plugged in here as well for the most performant operations.
    - **gf_images_stats** - for now just a few simple image statistics function that collection some aggregate metrics from the DB
    - **gf_images_core**  - various image functions used by both the gf_images application, and other applications (gf_publisher, gf_crawl, etc.) 

- gf_publisher
publishing posts that are compositions of images and text.

- gf_landing_page
main landing page of the GF system, meant to hold links to all sub-apps and provide a single initial place for users to access GF. 

- gf_analytics
used for analytics by admins of a particular GF installation. Analytics of end-user interaction with the GF system.

- gf_crawl
discovers images on target web-pages and downloads them. after download images are registered into the GF system and transformed.
meant for automated collection of images from sites of interest.

- gf_domains
allows for viewing and registering domains of interest.

- gf_tagger
used for tagging/annotating all of the main resource types in the GF system - images/posts/domains/etc.
allows for both adding of simple **tags**, as well as **notes** which are longer form text bits.
bookmarking of web-pages has also been added, to allow for saving web url's independent of the media that they might contain.

- gf_bookmarks  
functinality for storing/managing web **bookmarks**.  



**DB abstraction**  
MongoDB - <4.0 - not using new mongodb transactions yet  
SQLite  - using its SQL interface. this is the default DB configuration used in gf_solo  



**FS abstraction**  
The goal is to abstract file operations. This is mainly relevant for the gf_images and gf_crawl applications, where files are downloaded either from the user or from remote url's. 
gf_images downloads images, operates on them (transforms them with filters or resizes them or reformats them,etc.), and then persists them on a FS. The FS abstraction layer will allow
for configurability so that these operations can be applied to:  
    - AWS S3  
    - GCP storage  
    - local FS  
    - IPFS  

**Code Style**
A single style is maintained across languages used in the implementation (**Go**,**Python**,**Typescript**) - even though the languages are different enough from each other. 
The focus is on basic functional language principles (of pure functions, high-level functions, closures). Functions should receive all the state that they operate on via their arguments (other then functions that work with external state - DB or external queries). Object orientation (objects holding state and methods operating on that state internally) is avoided as much as possible (even though it is the default idiomatic style of Go and Python). State/variable mutation still exists in various places, but the aim is to keep it to a minimum (constant runtime values would be a welcome feature in Go and Python). 

**Naming convention**  
There are multiple languages used - Go/Python/Typescript/Rust. The goal is to maintain a simple universal naming scheme across all languages. For some languages this scheme is not standard, but having it be consistent across all of the code (including the shared symbol names) has its benefits in readibility and correctness.  
Rules:
- snake_case
- function argument names beging with "p_" to easily indicate right away where the value is coming from (outside the function, or from internal scope).
- if values/variables are of generic type, such as string/float/int/list/map/tuple, then their names should end with a postfix with a shorthand. If its a custom/user_defined type 
  then there is no posftix. this practice increases readibility and acts as local documentation, for which types are involved in a particular expression, either in dynamic languages,
  or in languages with type inferencers.  
  Type suffixes:
    - float  - "_f"  
    - int    - "_int"  
    - string - "_str"  
    - list   - "_lst"  
    - map    - "_map"  
    


Originally created by Ivan Trajkovic

Commit message:

small readme improvements, broke up naming convention text into a separate doc.

README.md, after:



![alt text](http://gf--img.s3-website-us-east-1.amazonaws.com/gf_logo_0.3.png "GloFlow logo")

Media publishing/management/manipulation system.

screenshots:
<img align="left" width="500" height="300" src="https://gloflow.com/images/d/thumbnails/34235e14afaa6baaff802c659ff5cd06_thumb_large.png">
<img align="left" width="500" height="300" src="https://gloflow.com/images/d/thumbnails/4ae445a94deea001d04d2b4068391c1f_thumb_large.png">


(note: this is alpha software, not feature complete)

GloFlow is a set of tools meant for media **discovery**/**curation**.
Its purpose is to help manage media (for now mainly images) collections, to **edit** media, **publish** it, **share** it with other people, **analyse** it. 
Its goal is to provide free and private exchange of media between people and groups of people. It currently runs as a centralized service, but the aim is for it to also be fully decentralized and run in a P2P network. 

Images/videos are at the core of our social **culture**, at the core of how we perceive the world and how we **remember ideas** and **moments**. **We communicate most effectivelly when we exchange visual information**. There should be a technology that is focused on that, that is modern, accessible to technical people for modification/integration and automation, and most importantly **free** and **independent** of any single individuals or groups (and their possible control).

This project is still very much work in progress. It has been worked on over the years in an largely unplanned manner, adding parts that were of interest at the time. 
It has been rewritten 3 times since I wrote the first official code in **2012** (when it went online). 

Originally it was in Python on the backend, and JS on the frontend. Later the entire thing was rewritten in Dart on both the frontend and backend. Finally the backend was rewritten in **Go**, and frontend in TypeScript. 

**Rust** is used for the gf_images_jobs module at the moment. It includes basic image operations that are coded in Rust without dependencies, for image saturation, contrast, brightness, noise. More operations need to be added:
    - Blur
    - Various shifting in color-space towards a particular color.
    - Image Entropy measurements and croping basic on the highest-entropy region.

**TensorFlow** - at the moment GF can pack images into .tfrecords files, for loading into Tensorflow for model training. The goal is have Tensorflow integrated into GF fully, and allow for image flows to be packaged as .tfrecords and piped into various models for training. Model inferencing is to be integrated as well, for classification of images in flows, for training of models from tags added to images by users. Reinforcment-learning is also to be used in gf_crawl so that the crawler can learn to crawl sites/domains that have high-quality images (and to depth-search those url tree's first).



**Core Applications**

- gf_solo
monolith that compils all the sub-apps into a single package - (gf_images/gf_publisher/gf_analytics/etc.).
it is built into a single Docker container, and meant to be used by power-users on their personal machines or servers.  

- gf_images
main application, responsible for working with images. this application contains its own HTTP handlers for REST API endpoints for adding images to the system. it also contains functions for working with Image Flows (which are collections of images). this application has several sub-packages:
    - **gf_gif_lib** - this is responsible for working with GIF files.
    - **gf_image_editor** - collection of functions for saving versions of images (versions that were edited). Image filters are for now appliced on the front-end in JS code, in the browser, but in the future we need to move to applying filters on the backend as well since we can scale and be much more performant there for really large images (or for less powerful .
    - **gf_images_jobs** - this is the main image operations image manager, parallel process that applies various image transformation to potentially large collections of images. This is purely Go for now, but Rust will be plugged in here as well for the most performant operations.
    - **gf_images_stats** - for now just a few simple image statistics function that collection some aggregate metrics from the DB
    - **gf_images_core**  - various image functions used by both the gf_images application, and other applications (gf_publisher, gf_crawl, etc.) 

- gf_publisher
publishing posts that are compositions of images and text.

- gf_landing_page
main landing page of the GF system, meant to hold links to all sub-apps and provide a single initial place for users to access GF. 

- gf_analytics
used for analytics by admins of a particular GF installation. Analytics of end-user interaction with the GF system.

- gf_crawl
discovers images on target web-pages and downloads them. after download images are registered into the GF system and transformed.
meant for automated collection of images from sites of interest.

- gf_domains
allows for viewing and registering domains of interest.

- gf_tagger
used for tagging/annotating all of the main resource types in the GF system - images/posts/domains/etc.
allows for both adding of simple **tags**, as well as **notes** which are longer form text bits.
bookmarking of web-pages has also been added, to allow for saving web url's independent of the media that they might contain.

- gf_bookmarks  
functinality for storing/managing web **bookmarks**.  
includes front-end components for creating (via browser bookmarklet) and viewing of bookmarks

**Web3 user-system**
user system is based on web3/ethereum platform. users login by signing and sending messages to the backend for verification.

**DB abstraction**  
MongoDB - <4.0 - not using new mongodb transactions yet  
SQLite  - using its SQL interface. this is the default DB configuration used in gf_solo  



**FS abstraction**  
The goal is to abstract file operations. This is mainly relevant for the gf_images and gf_crawl applications, where files are downloaded either from the user or from remote url's. 
gf_images downloads images, operates on them (transforms them with filters or resizes them or reformats them,etc.), and then persists them on a FS. The FS abstraction layer will allow
for configurability so that these operations can be applied to:  
    - AWS S3  
    - GCP storage  
    - local FS  
    - IPFS  



Originally created by Ivan Trajkovic
